The fictional city of Rockport consists of three major districts (Rosewood, Camden Beach and Downtown Rockport) consisting of grimy industrial areas, more affluent suburbs, mountainous and wooded surroundings, a university campus, and a downtown core, with a mixture of road networks ranging from coastal roads to major highways. The setting is heavily influenced by cities in the United States' "Rust Belt" and Pacific Northwest with some resemblance to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Seattle, Washington and Portland, Oregon. Much of the game's events and story take place in a fixed time-period between sunrise and sunset, compared to previous title that took place at night. The player arrives in Rockport in a custom-painted BMW M3 GTR, hoping to take part in the city's illegal street racing scene. Upon arriving, they meet with Mia Townsend (Josie Maran), who offers to help them get started, while crossing paths with Sergeant Nathan Cross (Dean McKenzie) - the city's top traffic officer in the Rockport Police Department (RPD) who drives a custom-painted Chevrolet Corvette police interceptor - who seeks to bring down the "Blacklist", a group of the fifteen most-wanted drivers sought by the RPD.[3] Mia soon helps the player to start engaging with other street racers, soon bringing them to the attention of Clarence "Razor" Callahan (Derek Hamilton), the 15th ranked member of the Blacklist, who engages them in a "pink slip" race. Despite the player's earlier success, the car breaks down during the race due the engine seizing from a lack of oil, causing them to lose. Razor soon claims the car for himself, before he and the other racers flee, leaving the player at the mercy of Cross and the RPD. A few days later, the player is released on a lack of evidence, and is picked up by Mia. She quickly explains that Razor sabotaged their car to win it, and used it instantly to become #1 on the Blacklist. Providing the player with a safehouse and a new car, Mia recommends that the player works up the Blacklist themselves, defeating each of its racers, in order to challenge Razor and win back their car.[6] In exchange for her help, including the involvement of Rog - a male racer the player befriended before the loss of their BMW - Mia asks for the unquestioned placement of large "side bets" on the player's street races. As the player makes progress, Rog contacts the player to inform them that Mia's bets are earning her large amounts of money that will likely attract RPD's attention, and suggests they keep their distance from her. Eventually the player becomes #2 on the Blacklist and attracts Razor's attention from the reputation they have accumulated over time, culminating in the pair racing against each other. The player manages to defeat Razor and recover their car from him, but quickly learn that Mia is an undercover police officer for the RPD, who had been working to bring down the Blacklist from the inside for Cross.[7] As the RPD begin to arrive on the scene, Mia advises the player to run, as Razor and the Blacklist racers are arrested, despite several of them trying to flee when they realize Mia lured them into the RPD's ambush. Cross, angered at Mia's inaction to arrest the player as well, calls in a city-wide police hunt for them. Unable to return to their safehouses, the player finds themselves aggressively pursued around the city. Mia soon contacts them and helps them out one more time by directing them to jump a derelict bridge outside the city limits. The player successfully evade the cops by reaching it and leaves Rockport.[9] In a post-credits scene, Cross creates a national-level warrant for the player and their BMW, adding them to the National Most Wanted List.