The game begins in 1911, where former outlaw John Marston (Rob Wiethoff) is taken from his family by Bureau of Investigation agents Edgar Ross (Jim Bentley) and his partner, Archer Fordham (David Wilson Barnes), and will only be granted amnesty when he brings the remaining members of his old gang to justice. John is escorted to the town of Armadillo and sets off to track down former ally Bill Williamson (Steve J. Palmer). He confronts Williamson and his men at their stronghold, Fort Mercer, only to be shot and left for dead. Local rancher Bonnie MacFarlane (Kimberly Irion) finds him critically wounded and takes him to her ranch for recovery. Several days later, John begins performing tasks and favors for various allies in exchange for their help with organizing an attack on Fort Mercer. John and his group then breach the fort and defeat Williamson's gang only to find that Williamson has fled to Mexico to seek help from Javier Escuella (Antonio Jaramillo), another former member of John's gang. In Mexico, John initially sides with Mexican Army Colonel Agustín Allende (Gary Carlos Cervantes) to help end a rebellion in return for Allende delivering Escuella and Williamson to him. However, Allende betrays John, who then sides with the rebels. John, along with rebel leader Abraham Reyes (Josh Segarra), eventually turns the tide in favor of the rebels, launching an assault on the El Presidio fortress. They find Escuella, who attempts to bargain for his life by revealing that Williamson has been under Allende's protection. John is given the option to either kill Escuella or turn him over to the Bureau. John and Reyes then take the fight to Allende. As Allende's palace is stormed by the rebels, both he and Williamson flee but are apprehended and killed. Reyes takes charge of the local government and plans to advance on the capital, while John leaves to meet with the Bureau in Blackwater. Ross and Fordham refuse to let John return to his family until he assists the Bureau in hunting down the only remaining member of his previous gang who is still active as an outlaw: its leader and John's surrogate father, Dutch van der Linde (Benjamin Byron Davis). After surviving several ambushes and thwarting a bank robbery, John joins Ross, Fordham, and a group of U.S. soldiers in an attack on Dutch's hideout. During the assault, John chases Dutch up to a cliff, where the latter, mortally wounded, warns John that the Bureau won't let him have peace and then commits suicide by backing off the cliff. John is released from his deal and returns home to his wife Abigail (Sophie Marzocchi) and son Jack (Josh Blaylock). John devotes his time tending to the ranch, having sworn to keep himself and his family away from the outlaw lifestyle forever. However, true to Dutch's word, Ross double-crosses John and leads a combined force of soldiers, lawmen, and government agents after him. John fends off several waves of attackers and gets his family to safety, but stays behind to hold back the rest. Despite a valiant last stand, he dies after being shot numerous times by Ross and his men and is buried by his family on the hill overlooking the ranch. Three years later in 1914, following the death of his mother, Jack tracks down the now-retired Ross and kills him in a duel, avenging his father and continuing the path of violence his father had tried to keep away from him. The fates of John's companions are later summarized in newspaper articles and NPC dialog: Marshal Leigh Johnson retired from Armadillo at age 54 and moved away, Reyes was consumed by power and became a tyrant, Bonnie MacFarlane eventually married, Irish shot himself dead in an outhouse when his gun accidentally discharged, Seth Briars eventually found treasure and became rich, and Landon Ricketts died quietly in his sleep