Apex Legends is an online multiplayer battle royale game featuring squads of three players using pre-built characters (known as "Legends" within the game), similar to those of hero shooters. Alternate modes have been introduced allowing for single and for two-player squads since the game's release. Each match generally features twenty teams of three-player squads. Players can join friends in a squad or can be matched randomly with other players. Prior to the match, each player on the squad selects one of the Legends, with the exception that no Legend may be selected more than once by a squad. All teams are then placed on an aircraft that passes over the game map. One player in each squad is the jumpmaster, selecting when the squad should skydive out of the aircraft and where to land with concurrence of the other squad members. However, players are free to deviate from the squad's path. Once on the ground, the squad can scavenge for weapons, armor, and other equipment that is scattered around buildings, or in crates randomly distributed around the map, while keeping an eye out for other squads. Apex Legends includes a nonverbal communication "Ping system" which allows players to use their game controller to communicate to their squad certain directions, weapon locations, enemies and suggested strategies. While the game offers movement options similar to other shooters, it includes some of the gameplay features of previous Titanfall games, such as the ability to climb over short walls, slide down inclined surfaces, and use zip-lines to traverse an area quickly.[4] Players who become knocked down in the course of a game can be revived by their squadmates. Should a player be killed completely, they can still be resurrected if their team member(s) collect their respawn banner, which appears at the place where they died, and bring it to one of several beacons on the island. The banner, however, must be collected within a time limit, before expiring and fully eliminating the player. Over time, the game's safe zone will reduce in size around a randomly-selected point on the map; players outside the safe zone take damage and may die if they do not reach the safe zone in time. This also confines squads to smaller spaces to force encounters. The last squad with any members left alive are crowned the "Apex Champions" of that match. Players are awarded in-game currency based on their squad's placement as well as experience points. Apex Legends is a free-to-play game, monetized through micro-transactions and loot boxes, which allow the player to spend both real money and in-game currency on cosmetic items, such as outfits for the Legends and new colors for weapons.